welcome to All Hands call for 10th of
February 2020 we will be talking this
week about epidemics and we got a guest
Adam Malenko who I hope I pronounced
that pretty well if not please fix me up
where we are pleased to have you here
Adam and please tell us about Ruben
omics and how you're using ipfs and the
p2p new product okay thank you and hello
everyone I'm ready maniacal and I've
been working in our lab for 25 years now
and today I'd like it to share my
experience and voter bono mixed is and
mainly how we use ipfs so okay basically
let's start from a small small
introduction a small history of our
project the main team started to do some
experiments with billing technologies
back to 2015 and at that time they tried
to launch a drone by setting in
transaction in a theorem blockchain and
they succeed it actually so it was
really good after few more examples
after human experiments in 2017 we got
funded on ICO and we started to focus
mainly on the robot omics protocol which
I will tell you about today but first of
all I have to warn you robbing Amex is
quite a huge topic to discuss in 20
minutes so I'll mostly focus on the
untidy face part right and let me start
from how we came up with the idea of
economics we for example me I'm still a
student I'm a PhD student in University
and I see a lot of people studying
engineering robotics computer science
etc and most of the engineers when it
comes to building a project with the
robot with the drone of sensors etc most
of the time we use areas probably you
you may have known this framework it
stands for a robotic operating system
and it's a huge framework which is which
has a huge community a lot of packages
to control wheels manipulator drone to
get the data from different type of
sensors etc and from one hand we have
this huge amount of people who are
engineers who work with robots and from
the other hand we have new technologies
like web 3 distributed file system
blockchain etc and we thought that we
could combine them and we could build
some kind of communication protocol for
these people to make it easier for
engineers to develop applications which
would be completely autonomous and it
would be really easy to connect your
project your robotic project to new
internet to web 3 so as I have mentioned
for the last 25 years
we're developing this kind of link
between iOS users and web 3
communication protocols if it's possible
I would like to share the screen and
show you a few like a demo and from this
demo on I will explain how it works and
where we use it actually it's our main
DPP it's the EPP the troponin XCOM here
you can see some statistic and on the
left side you can
my services on this services I will show
you this demo it's called future whether
it's pretty simple but it explains some
basic things about
ipfs usage in our protocol all it has is
just a single button so I click it and
with a mask window popped up so it asked
me to sign a message and it's not a
transaction it actually our abenomics
words so I have to sign every type of
message I broadcast to the network with
my private key so I could be identified
and it could be secured and now I'm
waiting for the result here we go
and what what you can see let's start
from the URL bar and here you you can
see in ipfs cache which describes a type
of service in terms of robin onyx
network we have different services and
to distinguish one from another we
assigned them in a BFS hash which is
unique for a particular service also it
has an affiliate address it's its
purpose to tell the difference between
the results we get from the network and
it's really important for you to
understand that we don't have a
particular endpoint for a service since
it's just beautiful communication and we
don't have an IP address or a port or
something
there is no names there is just an
identifier in the network and we
broadcast the message which will be did
you deliver it to all the services in
the network and only the service with
the same with the same ad FS fish would
be able to reply on our series
in this demonstration it's really simple
and all it does is just records the
waiter and the Fuji mountain and sense
its back as a json encoded string but
it's just a small amount of urban omics
potential so basically before we we
found the way to connect a sensor which
is let's say on the Fuji mountain or
somewhere else and we can end this
sensor to a distributed network and it
doesn't it's not necessary to have a
specific end point and it just could
reply on on the message based on the IP
fs.h model so another thing I would like
you to show is the small scheme okay
let's start from this one you can read
up on omics as the middleman between
cyber-physical systems such as robots or
sensors etc and a user with the
mathematical extension and both of these
parts they have a private and public key
they're able to sign messages and
broadcast them in the network and repin
omics helps to find away from one to
another and to deliver some would say
it's called robin Amex as a service
robot as a service I mean so in the in
the github you probably have seen this
small scheme and we have basically two
two layers of our protocol first of all
it's we use a BFS pops up and it's still
marked as an experimental feature but we
have been using it for two years and it
works quite well another layer is
blockchain in this
example is a theorem but it's not
necessary
could be stadium it could be orchid or
something else why we different why we
split those layers in ipfs and ethereal
the purpose of this is it could not be
possible to have all the communication
between different services in just blood
chain it cost a lot writing something in
the blockchain because you're really a
lot and we decided to move all those
negotiations and all this communication
in a people ipfs pops up channels
meanwhile keeping in blockchain only the
necessary part like when we have a deal
for example between two parts we write
everything down in blockchain and then
we proceed communicating in a BFS in the
previous example of Fuji weather I
showed you we didn't have all of these
parts we had only a demand message and
in the result you can read it as I want
some service to be done and I go to
public distributed network and I just
ask for it I don't care how it works and
I don't care where it lives
I just broadcast a message where I say
ok I need the weather on the Fuji
mountain and someone in the network who
always listens to the channel and is
able to reply for a specific model for a
specific ipfs fish finds my message and
replies back with the result message so
in this example they were involved on
the this part the Matt message and the
result but if we can see there more
a more real-life example here left
scenario you would see that when I asked
for a service someone would reply with
an offer and it would involve some
negotiation about the task what should
be done about the money how much it
would cost and some other description of
them some other parameters and in this
scenario we would have Adam add message
from my side for example another message
from a service side there is a specific
role in our network which is called
provider and all the does is looks for a
correspond in the month and offer
messages and when it finds once it
creates a liability smart contract and
writes down all the necessary
information about the task so in the
future it could not be changed so it
makes immutable for all the parts then
the agent would perform the task and
broadcast result message and I get my
result and the agent gets gets its feet
for example so I hope you get the main
idea at this moment I will briefly make
you look at the messages specification
and then I will let you ask my equations
so in the bottom exit pork there are
three main types of messages it's a
demand message of your message and
result as I mentioned previously every
service has a unique identifier it's a
model and then if we need to pass some
dynamic additional parameters we define
them in an objective if the service is
not for free we define token it's
basically and here C 20 edition
available chain and the amount of these
tokens like house is
name space for a service and in terms of
ipfs it's basically in a BFS pub/sub
channel if we are willing someone to
participate in validating the result
from the agent we can hire a third party
who would be our validator we specify
any freedom address and validator fee
the deadline is pretty obvious I think
nons is for security reason the center
is for my public a few others and the
signature is the team signature the core
message is pretty much the same except
like house instead of a later fee and
the result is much smaller it has the
result field which contains a BFS flesh
of the result file if it was with
liability involved it has a liability
address success true or false and a
signature of the agent those messages
JSON encoded and transmitted via ad FS
pops up channels
briefly that's basically that's
basically it I want to say so if you
have n equation
quite any questions to specifically this
part or overall overall Tennyson it may
be easier if you stop sharing then we
can like see public spaces
okay just all right anyone got any
questions I got mine okay John it you
are first
go on my suppose how do you determine
the semantics so this messaging protocol
is seems to be very specific to your use
case with robotics and everyone has to
speak the same messaging protocol so how
do you imagine the semantics for this
platform you mean it's a it's just a
standard for problem with communication
protocol but then every every single
service defines the way it works by
itself so basically if you're willing to
connect a service to abenomics protocol
you need to teach the service speak
those messages and then catch a yes oh I
need it basically speak rubbin up robo
tommix
protocol I got a question
are you using like I imagine you have
like a reference client or like
reference implementation of abenomics
are using go ipfs or jet ipfs or are you
like mixing them both of them basically
we have and a gyro it's a client for
it's our client for abenomics network
and basically it's just a virtual
machine and it's shipped with a go IP
fest but on the a PP side we use JSA PFS
actually the least problem connecting
them together because go away first
notes hidden from JSA PFS notes and we
needed to make a bridge between them
we need to allocate another service we
should connect those notes between yeah
hopefully it will improve this year we
referred to yeah I got another question
from myself
what what's the identity behind like how
do you create this pops up channel name
is it like the identity of the service
that's like having the sensor attached
or is it like some others know about pop
channels we have a lighthouse smart
contract which holds all the records of
the ad FS top channels and it's human
readable so for example the main one is
a roll of dot light fast dot v dot Robyn
MX dot a th and if you would like to
define a new one you need to send it the
router you send a transaction to a smart
contract and to create a new channel
which would be written in the etherium
bull chain but for example for model
field you can define it as you want it
just should be it must be unique for
every service that's it you can just get
the fresh from some file in your in your
service or anything so if it's channel
is defined in a smart contract which
lives in a Syrian Network and model
identifier is is on you I'm looking at
everyone faces and there were many
questions raise your hands or ask how on
the top
I understand there a lot of information
right now but as I told previously
abenomics is not like for just 20
minutes we have a beacon we have YouTube
channel Twitter riot and everything so
if you are willing to try our services
or get more familiar with how it works
you are welcome to ask me anywhere in
any channel
I got like the final question from me
what would be like the simplest use case
for a rare example of use of Robin omics
if you would like to like explain like a
sample use case for for it what could
you build on top of the simplest one if
we get rid of this blockchain part the
simplest part is just to use it to get
data without a specific end point we
have for example a sensor which checks
air quality and all I need to do is to
set this sensor get Raspberry Pi for
example connected to a network and I can
get the data all over the world without
any domains on without a specific IP
address etc I just need to know this IPS
model which that's basically it we use
ipv6 addressing so it's really simple
for us to connect a huge bunch of
sensors without warning that we need to
define a specific port or specific IP
address for every of them if we involve
this blockchain part we have for example
we can issue a digital identity for
something for example for a drone we can
sign up an issue an identity for you
drone for your sensor for everything or
for example you can hire some you can
hire a drone to deliver something it's
still under construction but you can pay
a small amount of tokens for a drone
that will catch your cash your message
and perform the task
that's a good example actually alright
I've run out of questions and the ad for
final questions before we leave our
guests all right
I didn't thank you so much for joining
us this week it was really cool
and maybe kind of unexpected use of IP
first pops up especially given you've
been using it for two years it will for
sure follow up on like bigger pain
points and the way we could improve
interval between going there's a big
race yeah but thank you so much for
joining us this week and PSA from me is
we are not meeting again next week we
are meeting again in two weeks so stay
tuned
once again thank you very much Uncas and
I do attention the next one